[Unknown]: IVM.
[Amit Varma]: why do voters tolerate this?
[Amit Varma]: The chief reason for this is what Public choice economists call Rational ignorance.
[Amit Varma]: These economic matters are complicated and take a lot of time to understand,
[Amit Varma]: now most voters know that no election is won by just one vote,
[Amit Varma]: so their single vote probably won't make a difference either.
[Amit Varma]: This being the case, why put in the hard work to understand complex economic issues?
[Amit Varma]: This ignorance is perfectly rational.
[Amit Varma]: So who do we blame for the state of our nation if we can't even blame ourselves?
[Unknown]: Welcome to The Scene and The Unseen,
[Unknown]: our weekly podcast on economics, politics and behavioral science.
[Unknown]: Please welcome your host, Amit Bhadwa.
[Amit Varma]: Welcome to The Scene and The Unseen.
[Amit Varma]: In this week's episode, we are going to be talking about infrastructure, leasing and
[Amit Varma]: financial services, also known as IL&FS, which is surely the most ungainly acronym ever.
[Amit Varma]: IL and FS. I mean, WTF, dude.
[Amit Varma]: Cribs apart, IL&FS is a very interesting company because it is not a public sector unit,
[Amit Varma]: nor is it quite private sector.
[Amit Varma]: The same bad incentives that apply to government owned companies apply to IL&FS.
[Amit Varma]: And while there is taxpayers money involved, it is in indirect, insidious ways.
[Amit Varma]: More than anything, the failure of IL&FS exposes fundamental faults in our system of government
[Amit Varma]: and in our financial systems.
[Amit Varma]: My guests today to talk about this are Vivek Kaul and Ashutosh Dattar.
[Amit Varma]: Vivek is perhaps India's best known economic journalist, and his speciality is simplifying
[Amit Varma]: the complexities of economics and finance for the common layman.
[Amit Varma]: He is also the author of the much acclaimed Easy Money Trilogy out now on Harper Collins.
[Amit Varma]: Ashutosh is a Thane based economist I've come to admire recently for his depth of thinking,
[Amit Varma]: and he's been writing regularly for the site I edit, Pragati, at thinkpragati.com.
[Amit Varma]: Before I begin my conversation with them, though, a quick commercial break.
[Amit Varma]: Like me, are you someone who loves fine art, but can't really afford to have paintings
[Amit Varma]: by the artists you like hanging on your walls?
[Amit Varma]: Well, worry no more.
[Amit Varma]: Head on over to Indiancolors.com.
[Amit Varma]: Indian Colors is a company that licenses images of the finest modern art from some of the
[Amit Varma]: best artists in India and adapts them into objects of everyday use.
[Amit Varma]: These include wearable art like stoles and shrugs, home decor like cushion covers and
[Amit Varma]: table runners, and accessories like tote bags.
[Amit Varma]: This allows art lovers to actually get fine art into their homes at an accessible price,
[Amit Varma]: and artists get royalties on sales, just like authors do.
[Amit Varma]: What's more, Indian Colors now has an exciting range of new products, including fridge magnets
[Amit Varma]: with some stunning motifs, and salad bowls and platters made of mango wood.
[Amit Varma]: Their artists include luminaries like Babu Xavier, Vazvo x Vazvo, Brinda Miller, Dilip
[Amit Varma]: Sharma, Shruti Nelson, and Pradeep Mishra.
[Amit Varma]: They accept bulk orders for corporate and festival gifting, but even if you want to
[Amit Varma]: buy just for yourself or a friend, head on over to Indiancolors.com.
[Amit Varma]: That's colors with an O-U.
[Amit Varma]: And if you want a 20% discount, apply the code IVM20.
[Amit Varma]: That's IVM for IVM Podcast.
[Amit Varma]: IVM20 for a 20% discount at Indiancolors.com.
[Amit Varma]: Vivek, Ashutosh, welcome to the scene and the unseen.
[Amit Varma]: Thanks, Amit.
[Amit Varma]: Ashutosh, let me start by asking you that before we even get into what ILNFS is, and
[Amit Varma]: to be honest, I didn't know what it was until this whole crisis broke.
[Amit Varma]: Can you tell me a little bit about what are NBFCs?
[Amit Varma]: Like ILNFS is basically a non banking financial company.
[Amit Varma]: What are these and why are they required?
[Guest 2]: So, technically speaking, any company which is not a bank, but has half of its assets
[Guest 2]: in financial assets, which could be shares, debentures, bonds, whatever, and half of its
[Guest 2]: income that comes from financial sort of interest or dividend becomes an NBFC and requires RBI
[Guest 2]: licensing permission to operate.
[Guest 2]: And that effectively covers your mortgage companies like HDFC, covers your insurance
[Guest 2]: companies, mutual funds, stock exchanges, mortgage guarantee companies, as well as things
[Guest 2]: like ILNFS.
[Guest 2]: Even in the company which is formed just to invest in shares without any public deposit
[Guest 2]: technically becomes an NBFC.
[Guest 2]: So, anything which does invest in financial assets and has financial income principally,
[Guest 2]: but is not a bank becomes an NBFC.
[Amit Varma]: So that's a definition of it.
[Amit Varma]: Now, one of the points that you'd made earlier in our conversation before this was that NBFCs
[Amit Varma]: like ILNFS essentially also indicate that there's a problem with the regulatory environment
[Amit Varma]: in the sense that, you know, banks are over regulated.
[Amit Varma]: That is why in some cases, companies like this become necessary.
[Amit Varma]: And then there are spin off consequences of that and so on and so forth.
[Guest 2]: Can you elaborate a bit on that?
[Guest 2]: So, banking in India is very highly regulated and sort of considered to be the case because
[Guest 2]: banks take deposits from public and hence as an investor protection deposit protection
[Guest 2]: modes, the restrictions on how many branches a bank can open, where it can invest, how
[Guest 2]: much it should lend to what categories, how should it recognize income, what is the capital
[Guest 2]: that it should have and so on.
[Guest 2]: And that sort of reduces the flexibility and innovation that banking can have.
[Guest 2]: And as a tool to offset some of that, a category of lending institution, which are primarily
[Guest 2]: into lending, not so much into deposits, although many of them take deposits, but primarily
[Guest 2]: into lending is a class of companies called as NBFCs were created.
[Guest 2]: So, NBFCs effectively do all kinds of lending that a bank does.
[Guest 2]: It's just that they're not subject to as tight a regulation as banks are.
[Guest 2]: And that gives them dynamism.
[Guest 2]: So, we've seen number of NBFCs increase in the last few years because that is not the
[Guest 2]: case with banks.
[Guest 2]: And that also has some consequences because of lesser regulation like what we're seeing
[Guest 2]: with IRNF.
[Amit Varma]: So, essentially what happens is that one of the function of banks because banks are too
[Amit Varma]: regulated to perform it in innovative ways is then farmed off and done by NBFCs, which
[Amit Varma]: are not as regulated as that.
[Guest 2]: Yes.
[Guest 2]: And sort of the irony of it is that many banks themselves have their own NBFCs.
[Unknown]: In fact, we'll just skip that.
[Guest 2]: So, that's the regulatory arbitrage that you get into.
[Guest 1]: What's regulatory arbitrage?
[Guest 1]: So, it's like, you know, if you make a comparison to with the United States, and you look at
[Guest 1]: what happened before the financial crisis of 2008.
[Guest 1]: So, a lot of these home loans, which were being given out were subprime loans.
[Guest 1]: And these are not banks, you know, per se, which were sort of going banks were giving
[Guest 1]: subprime loans, but there were other companies and other financial institutions.
[Amit Varma]: Fannie and Freddie and so on.
[Amit Varma]: No, Fannie is a different thing altogether.
[Guest 1]: There were these home mortgage companies, and they were essentially, you know, what
[Guest 1]: is referred to as shadow banking.
[Guest 1]: So, they do everything that a bank does, but the regulations governing them are, you know,
[Guest 1]: slightly loose.
[Guest 1]: So, they can do stuff which a bank cannot, you know, if you look at the US, a lot of
[Guest 1]: the, you know, financial institutions, which got into trouble, were basically not really
[Guest 1]: banks, I mean, you know, the Lehman Brothers of the world.
[Guest 1]: So, if you also look at banks, which got into trouble, you know, banks like Citigroup, it
[Guest 1]: was because of lending that they carried out through the shadow banking institutions.
[Amit Varma]: So, is it the case that banks are overregulated or NBFCs are under regulated?
[Guest 2]: What is the problem here?
[Guest 2]: I think the problem is that banks are overregulated.
[Guest 2]: I mean, to give you one example of how the arbitrage works, a bank is required to open
[Guest 2]: 25% of its branches in rural unbanked areas.
[Guest 2]: Now, that if I'm a bank that restricts my flexibility, so have 100% subsidiary, which
[Guest 2]: is an NBFC, and I can carry out lending activities in that without subject to those regulations.
[Guest 2]: So, in a sense, I'm trying to form a subsidiary to escape some of the tighter regulations
[Guest 2]: that the RBI has imposed on me and as a sort of via media, but that has cost because sort
[Guest 2]: of essentially you are trying to deal with friction.
[Amit Varma]: Right.
[Amit Varma]: And also then NBFCs, when banks open an NBFC, there seems to be a kind of legalized jogar
[Amit Varma]: to get away from a regulatory environment.
[Amit Varma]: But I think, I think Vivek, isn't the, you're also sort of making the point that it is also
[Amit Varma]: true that NBFCs are under regulated.
[Amit Varma]: Is that what you're saying?
[Guest 1]: I mean, to some extent, yes, I'll give you a very simple example.
[Guest 1]: And this is not really so much about regulation, but as to how, you know, regulators operate.
[Guest 1]: Right.
[Guest 1]: So take a look at RBI, Reserve Bank of India, which essentially regulates banks in India.
[Guest 1]: Now, every week, every month, every 15 days, RBI releases some data pertaining to banks.
[Guest 1]: OK, and if you look at that data, you know, it is very detailed.
[Guest 1]: I mean, there is still scope for improvement, but the amount of data that RBI releases on
[Guest 1]: banks is pretty good.
[Guest 1]: Now, take the example of housing finance companies, which are NBFCs and which are regulated by
[Guest 1]: the National Housing Bank, which is 100% subsidiary of the RBI.
[Guest 1]: Try getting data on, you know, housing finance companies, agglomerated data.
[Guest 1]: You can obviously get, you know, data for HDFC or, you know, Tata Home Finance and stuff
[Guest 1]: like that.
[Guest 1]: But agglomerated data for housing finance companies is simply not available.
[Guest 1]: The data that you get is two to three years old.
[Guest 1]: So how do you track as to what is happening in that sector at an agglomerated level?
[Guest 1]: So the issue with that issue is also what this tells us is that at some level, the National
[Guest 1]: Housing Bank is also not really, you know, up to the mark as RBI is.
[Amit Varma]: Yeah, and you know, when we talk about regulation, we obviously think about government regulation,
[Amit Varma]: but the most effective and really the only legit form of regulation, and in my opinion,
[Amit Varma]: is a regulation that customers do and that stakeholders do and it comes from them.
[Amit Varma]: And as you're pointing out, Vivek, to do that, they need information and enough scrutiny.
[Guest 1]: And in this case, what is happening is that that scrutiny isn't there because the data
[Guest 1]: isn't there.
[Guest 1]: Yes, so I'll just sort of take a detour.
[Guest 1]: And this is something that the Business India magazine wrote about ILNFS.
[Guest 1]: And it's very interesting because, you know, what they say here is, every time Business
[Guest 1]: India approached the institution, which is ILNFS for a story, it was thwarted by the
[Guest 1]: then chairman Ravi Parthasarathy.
[Guest 1]: His stock reply was, we are not a listed company, we're not obliged to talk to anyone, and they're
[Guest 1]: not accountable to anyone but our shareholders.
[Guest 1]: So the point...
[Amit Varma]: And those shareholders include government institutions like LIC, so they're accountable
[Guest 1]: to us in a sense.
[Guest 1]: See, it is because, and then the contradiction is if you go to the ILNFS website, and it's
[Guest 1]: stated there that ILNFS as a systematically important, systematically important, non-deposit
[Guest 1]: accepting, core investment company registered with the RBI, currently lends and invests
[Guest 1]: in ILNFS group companies.
[Guest 1]: But the point is, if you're systematically important, you need to be open to scrutiny.
[Amit Varma]: Yeah, and especially if there is taxpayers money, which is invested in you, which is
[Amit Varma]: certainly heavily the case with ILNFS even before this ludicrous bailout, then there
[Amit Varma]: has to be accountability and we have to know.
[Amit Varma]: But you know, before I get into ILNFS and all that, I'd like you guys to demystify banking
[Amit Varma]: itself for me.
[Amit Varma]: How does a bank operate?
[Amit Varma]: You know, what are you lending?
[Amit Varma]: What is leverage?
[Amit Varma]: How does it all work?
[Amit Varma]: I'm saying this because a lot of our listeners may not exactly know how the banking system
[Amit Varma]: works to begin with.
[Amit Varma]: And then what are the pressures on it?
[Amit Varma]: And then what are the incentives that banks operate under?
[Guest 2]: So can you demystify that for me?
[Guest 2]: So in a nutshell, what a bank essentially does is starts off with some amount of capital
[Guest 2]: that its shareholders put into it.
[Guest 2]: And based on that capital, it takes deposits from people like you and me, and then lends
[Guest 2]: the consolidated money to people who need credit.
[Guest 2]: And because banks typically will have much higher leverage ratio than a normal manufacturing
[Guest 2]: company, banks are inherently subject to higher regulation, not just in India, subject to
[Guest 2]: higher regulation globally.
[Guest 2]: Leverage ratio.
[Guest 2]: So what will happen typically is that if the shareholders of a bank put in 100 rupees of
[Guest 2]: their capital, a bank might have 900 rupees of deposits.
[Guest 1]: So in a sense, the balance sheet size is...
[Guest 1]: In fact, it will be much more than that.
[Guest 1]: It will be much more than that in case of India.
[Guest 1]: In banks, if you look at globally, typically the capital tends to be around 5% of their
[Guest 1]: liabilities.
[Guest 1]: So if you look at the leverage, it would be at least around 20 times.
[Guest 1]: And we're not talking about the, you know, the capital adequacy ratio here, because that
[Guest 1]: we go into a different domain.
[Guest 1]: Because for a lot of lending, you don't need to have capital.
[Amit Varma]: So what you're basically saying is that if depositors to a bank who are depositing their
[Amit Varma]: money deposits, say 5 rupees with the bank, the bank can then at a leverage ratio of 20,
[Guest 2]: they can lend...
[Guest 2]: No, no, no.
[Guest 2]: If a shareholder puts in...
[Guest 2]: So if a bank starts with 100 rupees of money from its shareholder, it will have something
[Guest 2]: like 19, sort of 1900 rupees of deposits.
[Guest 2]: So the total sum that it has to lend becomes 2000 rupees.
[Guest 2]: But as the owned money that the bank that has is only 100 rupees.
[Amit Varma]: Right.
[Guest 2]: So the assets can be 2000 rupees, but the equity is only 100 rupees.
[Guest 2]: And when you sort of go back to say a manufacturing firm or a telecom firm, typically or a cement
[Guest 2]: company people say 2 is to 1, debt equity is sort of the standard.
[Guest 2]: So 100 rupees of owned funds, 200 rupees of borrowings.
[Guest 2]: And here we are talking about 20x.
[Amit Varma]: So basically, if there's 100 rupees of their own capital and 1900 of depositors' capitals,
[Amit Varma]: and let's say then they lend 1800 out, and depositors take their money away and they're
[Amit Varma]: left only with 100.
[Amit Varma]: That's when you have a crisis.
[Guest 2]: That's when you have a crisis.
[Guest 2]: So the assumption in banking essentially is that depositors will not come in mass to demand
[Guest 1]: their money.
[Guest 1]: Right.
[Guest 1]: That's the fractionalism of banking as we call it.
[Guest 1]: And it rests on a very thin assumption that everyone will not demand their money at the
[Guest 1]: same time.
[Guest 2]: And that assumption gets tested during times of stress like what with ILFS.
[Guest 2]: And if nobody's willing to roll over their liabilities and people ask that please repay
[Guest 2]: my money, then how do you raise money on the asset side to pay back to people from whom
[Guest 2]: you borrowed?
[Amit Varma]: Essentially, that's the ILFS.
[Amit Varma]: So now, let's say an NBFC which only does loans and doesn't take deposits, they only have
[Amit Varma]: their own capital.
[Amit Varma]: So are they lending only that?
[Guest 2]: What are they lending?
[Guest 2]: They will borrow money from mutual funds, from insurance companies, from other banks.
[Guest 2]: So banks are an important source of lending, source of funds to the NBFCs.
[Guest 2]: So about 40-45% of the borrowings of NBFCs come from banks.
[Guest 2]: So in a sense, banks take deposits from people like you and me, lend to NBFCs, NBFCs online
[Guest 2]: lend it to people for mortgages, for cars or for SMEs, for working capital, etc.
[Guest 2]: And money that we put in mutual funds other than inequities, part of it again flows back
[Guest 2]: to NBFC.
[Guest 2]: So in a sense, the difference that is used in common parlance is that NBFCs are wholesale
[Guest 2]: funded because the people who give them loans are bulk institutions, whereas banks are generally
[Guest 2]: retail funded where the ticket size might be 1 lakh 50,000, etc.
[Guest 2]: Whereas in case of NBFCs, the ticket size tends to be 100 crores, 500 crores, etc.
[Guest 2]: So that's the difference.
[Guest 2]: But they also have loans, but they will have slightly lower leverage ratio because they
[Amit Varma]: have higher capital requirement.
[Amit Varma]: And how are the incentives different for them?
[Amit Varma]: As in, you know, any private company, let's say any company operates under incentives,
[Amit Varma]: which if they don't give a certain return to their shareholders, they're in trouble,
[Amit Varma]: they're accountable.
[Amit Varma]: If they're a public company, their stock price goes down if their balance sheet isn't good.
[Amit Varma]: So in a private company, for example, the way the incentives work is that you have to
[Amit Varma]: satisfy those requirements.
[Amit Varma]: And the incentives are by and large good.
[Amit Varma]: In a public sector company, those don't matter because the employees are not held accountable.
[Amit Varma]: It's taxpayers money, you know, the taxpayer will bail you out.
[Amit Varma]: So which is why you have, you know, public sector companies are run much worse than private
[Amit Varma]: sector companies.
[Amit Varma]: But just in terms of the difference in general between banks and NBFCs, forgetting the private
[Amit Varma]: public aspect of it, because banks are much more regulated, are there differences in the
[Amit Varma]: incentives at play which affect how they operate?
[Guest 2]: No, the incentives would roughly be the same.
[Guest 2]: Same.
[Guest 2]: So the management gets compensated based on either the stock price or the profits that
[Guest 2]: the company reports.
[Guest 2]: And the employees sort of would have their companies would have their own internal.
[Amit Varma]: But the question of who's holding them accountable would depend on whether the ownership pattern,
[Amit Varma]: whether it's private or public or?
[Guest 2]: Yes.
[Guest 2]: So you have public sector NBFCs, which haven't done as well as and sort of which sort of
[Guest 2]: mirror the state that the public sector banks have.
[Guest 2]: And your private sector NBFCs, which, which is also I mean, even in banks, you know, you
[Guest 2]: have banks, you have mixed I mean, you have corporate banks, which are in trouble.
[Guest 2]: And you have some NBFCs, which are in trouble and some NBFCs which are doing well.
[Guest 2]: So it's essentially a mixed, mixed bag.
[Guest 2]: But in general, what holds true in banking that public sector banks are doing worse off
[Guest 2]: than private sector banks would hold true in NBFCs also.
[Amit Varma]: So Vivek, tell me about ILNFS and what is it?
[Amit Varma]: What kind of NBFC is it?
[Guest 1]: And so as I said, you know, it's a systematically important non deposit accepting core investment
[Guest 1]: company.
[Guest 1]: And it basically lends and invests in its group companies.
[Amit Varma]: Is it a private company or a public company?
[Guest 1]: Oh, what would you it's not listed?
[Amit Varma]: It's not listed, but in the sense, is it private sector?
[Guest 1]: It's quasi government to the extent that 25% is owned by LIC.
[Guest 1]: Then you have State Bank of India with around 6.9% or 7% Central Bank of India also owns.
[Guest 1]: So roughly around 40% of ILNFS is owned by, you know, government institutions.
[Guest 1]: But then it's not I don't think it's a you cannot call it out and out government company.
[Guest 1]: You can call it a quasi government company.
[Guest 1]: Yes.
[Amit Varma]: I don't think it's an out and out.
[Amit Varma]: In the sense it's not owned by the company, but these public sector institutions are major
[Guest 1]: investors in it as are private.
[Guest 1]: Yeah, I mean, the second largest owner is a Japanese company, Oryx Corporation.
[Guest 1]: HDFC has a large amount of stake and very, very interestingly, the third largest shareholder
[Guest 1]: in ILNFS are its employees.
[Guest 1]: Oh, okay.
[Guest 1]: Which is something that's not very well known.
[Guest 1]: So basically, what that means is that as the company has grown, ESOPs have been a major
[Guest 1]: incentive which has been offered to their employees.
[Guest 1]: So yeah, so it's basically a, you know, it's a conduit which sort of, you know, raises
[Guest 1]: money and invests in its subsidiaries.
[Amit Varma]: If it's not publicly listed, how do the ESOPs work?
[Amit Varma]: So I wouldn't know exactly what they are structuring.
[Amit Varma]: Like they get dividends on their shares or something.
[Guest 2]: No, but what some companies do, for example, is that they will have a sort of a periodic
[Guest 2]: valuation done of their shares and employees can exercise based on that.
[Guest 2]: Some companies have a fixed multiple of profits to which the share prices are pegged.
[Guest 2]: So it becomes a notional sort of an ESOP.
[Guest 2]: So there are structures which work around the problem of not.
[Guest 1]: Or you know, there is a hope that one day they'll get listed in.
[Guest 2]: Or use a market valuation that on an average, NBFCs trade at whatever, 10 times earnings
[Guest 2]: or 5 times book value and you sort of apply the same multiple and derive a notional.
[Guest 1]: So something of that sort would be done.
[Guest 1]: No, but the interesting thing is that three of their subsidiaries are listed.
[Guest 1]: ILNFS itself is not listed, but ILNFS Engineering and Construction, which used to be formerly
[Guest 1]: Mytas, the opposite of Satyam, the real estate.
[Amit Varma]: They were owned by Ramalinga Raju basically and these guys took over after that thing
[Amit Varma]: happened.
[Guest 1]: And ILNFS Transportation Networks and ILNFS Financial Services.
[Guest 1]: So the company basically has around 169 group companies, which operate in a wide variety
[Guest 1]: of businesses and which is why, you know, someone I think, Andy Mukherjee had a piece
[Guest 1]: where he called ILNFS a Hydra-headed monster.
[Guest 1]: And you know, the funny thing is the government has superseded the old board and gotten in
[Guest 1]: a new board.
[Guest 1]: And this new board has to come up with a proposal, you know, by the end of this month.
[Guest 1]: But you know, I mean, how will these guys figure out, you know, what 169 group companies
[Guest 1]: have been up to in such a short period of time?
[Guest 1]: And there isn't enough publicly available information about all these companies and
[Guest 1]: you know, what they really do.
[Amit Varma]: And Samar Srivastava wrote a piece for Forbes, where he quoted a fund manager as saying that
[Amit Varma]: this is a debt Ponzi scheme.
[Guest 1]: It's a debt Ponzi scheme.
[Guest 1]: So basically, what Samar wrote was that, you know, ILNFS itself raises money and then it
[Guest 1]: invests in equity in its group companies and on the basis of that equity, the group companies
[Guest 1]: raise more debt.
[Guest 1]: So which is, you know, visible if you look at ILNFS's balance sheet, the leverage, you
[Guest 1]: know, the debt is to equity ratio has essentially gone up from around 7.7 in 2013-14 to around
[Guest 1]: 16.8 in 2017-18.
[Guest 1]: So you know, which basically means that the debt has grown at a much faster pace than
[Guest 1]: their equity.
[Guest 1]: So at some level, it also means that, you know, they've been raising new debt to pay
[Guest 1]: off old debt, which is why it you know, which is why that fund manager says that it's a
[Amit Varma]: debt Ponzi scheme.
[Amit Varma]: And you know, part of what could be making that happen is that from my understanding
[Amit Varma]: of it, if you can elaborate on that, is that they're taking short term debt for long term
[Guest 2]: investments because they do a lot of infrastructure investment.
[Guest 2]: So I think the bigger problem with ILNFS more than that, I think, as you mentioned, is that
[Guest 2]: there isn't enough information available in public.
[Guest 2]: So the things that ILNFS does are things that a lot of other companies do.
[Guest 2]: There are large companies which do contracting, own assets, have a financing subsidiary, which
[Guest 2]: does loans.
[Guest 2]: So there are companies which do that, but most of them are listed.
[Guest 2]: So in a sense, every quarter, they're subject to scrutiny, what has been your cash flow,
[Guest 2]: what is your debt, that project that you took there, you had a, there were delays, what
[Guest 2]: is the progress, that scrutiny is something that ILNFS was not subject to.
[Amit Varma]: And that scrutiny itself changes the incentives, you're less likely to behave in a proper way
[Guest 1]: when there is.
[Guest 1]: So if you look at, you know, I was just looking at the annual report yesterday, and I'll read
[Guest 1]: out names of a few companies, so which will itself tell you as to the wide variety of
[Guest 1]: businesses they are in.
[Guest 1]: So there is one company called Noida toll bridge company.
[Guest 1]: There is one called ILNFS solar power, ILNFS energy.
[Guest 1]: Then there is something called North Karnataka Expressway, Hazaribagh Ranchi Expressway, Muradabad
[Guest 1]: Bareilly Expressway.
[Guest 1]: So obviously, you know, a lot of it is infrastructure based, but a lot of it is not infrastructure
[Guest 1]: based also.
[Guest 1]: And you know, infrastructure based also they are into a wide variety of things.
[Guest 1]: So they maintain these expressways, they run toll companies.
[Guest 1]: They also are into what is known as, you know, BOT built on transfer contracts.
[Guest 1]: So they're just into so many things that it's, you know, and given the fact that very little
[Guest 1]: information is publicly available.
[Guest 1]: So you start wondering as to, you know, what exactly will this new board be able to achieve.
[Guest 1]: Now if you look at Satyam, you know, when Satyam was taken over by the government, it
[Guest 1]: was an easy decision because okay, fine, you know, this is ultimately Satyam was an information
[Guest 1]: technology company.
[Guest 1]: They had, you know, Ramalinga Raju had some, you know, he was punting on real estate as
[Guest 1]: well on the side.
[Guest 1]: So it was inherently a simple decision to sell off Satyam to the Mahindras and the problem
[Guest 1]: was solved.
[Guest 1]: And then the Mahindras sorted out, you know, the problems would have been in Satyam.
[Guest 1]: Now in this case, given that you have so many of these companies, it will be very, very
[Guest 1]: difficult, you know, if to sort of sell them off one by one.
[Guest 1]: And even if you want to sell them off, you know, a lot of these companies where some
[Guest 1]: information is available, do not really have a business model anymore.
[Guest 1]: So if you look at this Noida toll bridge company, it doesn't collect any toll.
[Amit Varma]: Its business model was to collect toll, but then the court ruled against it.
[Guest 1]: So they don't collect any toll.
[Guest 1]: Now, if you look at solar power and energy companies, renewable energy is not in a great
[Guest 1]: shape right now.
[Guest 1]: So similarly, they have these, you know, problems all over.
[Guest 2]: So can I sort of run into the problem of speed, which will compromise on value, right?
[Amit Varma]: And then you have the incentives of the new board in place, just to sort of take a step
[Amit Varma]: back, I'm trying to figure this out.
[Amit Varma]: Is this kind of structure normal, where ILFS has all the subsidiary companies.
[Amit Varma]: So what it seems to me as a layman is that every time they have a project, like say building
[Amit Varma]: a toll bridge in Noida, they'll form a subsidiary for that and they'll lend to that subsidiary
[Amit Varma]: or invest to that subsidy taking loans themselves.
[Amit Varma]: So they themselves are just like a managing company of a whole bunch of subsidiaries,
[Amit Varma]: who all then operate in silos, and who are all except the publicly listed ones you mentioned,
[Amit Varma]: equally unaccountable because ILFS itself is unaccountable.
[Guest 2]: So in infrastructure, you generally see that every individual project becomes a separate
[Guest 2]: subsidiary, STV as they call it.
[Guest 2]: So in a sense, that particular financing and business model is not unheard of, you will
[Amit Varma]: see pretty much every...
[Amit Varma]: Why is it necessary though?
[Guest 2]: Because it sort of you minimize the risk of that project and sort of don't expose the
[Guest 2]: other parts of the business to that.
[Guest 2]: So that is not, what is unique for ILFS is that the parent company is so non transparent.
[Guest 2]: So what happened is that in two years back, SEBI mandated that every company which has
[Guest 2]: listed debt instruments should also disclose half yearly financial statements.
[Guest 2]: Now, so ILFS does disclose that.
[Guest 2]: So every half an year, so we have last four or five times, half yearly September and March
[Guest 2]: statements, but A, those are not at a group level.
[Guest 2]: So the debt that you will see on that is just 10 or 15,000 crores, which is like not even
[Guest 2]: 20% of the group level debt.
[Guest 2]: And it's just a sort of a one page summary statement, which doesn't give you anything.
[Guest 2]: So in a sense, there was an acknowledgement on the part of regulators that there is a
[Guest 2]: problem here that you have big companies which are not listed, and they have systemic issues
[Guest 2]: if there is some and so information should be available.
[Guest 2]: The solution that they've come up with is half hearted and half big solution.
[Amit Varma]: We'll come to the solution later.
[Guest 1]: But I just want to make another point.
[Guest 1]: See, you know, while I mean, and I'm really not an expert on this.
[Guest 1]: And so I'm sort of, you know, guessing an answer here.
[Guest 1]: And I'd like you to correct me if I'm wrong.
[Guest 1]: So basically, you know, from I was doing a little digging yesterday.
[Guest 1]: And what I realized was that while you know, the idea of spinning off a company might be
[Guest 1]: fairly common in infrastructure, but ILNFS, whenever it sort of spun off a company, the
[Guest 1]: total amount of equity that it invested in that company was very, very low.
[Guest 1]: So they had very little, you know, at the cost of saying skin in the game, you know.
[Guest 1]: So if you look at, you know, the biggest company is the is ILNFS, transportation networks limited,
[Guest 1]: okay, it has a, it has assets of around 47,000 crore, which is like around, I would say around
[Guest 1]: 40% of the overall assets of ILNFS.
[Guest 1]: Now, it has the company has, you know, even though the assets are at 47,000 crore, the
[Guest 1]: equity is just 328 crores.
[Guest 1]: So it's, it's, you know, the, obviously, the amount of leverage that they're playing around
[Guest 1]: with is very, very high.
[Guest 1]: Even in in this other company, which is Mitas, formerly Mitas, that equity is now a negative
[Guest 1]: 139 crore, whereas the debt is close to 2100 crore.
[Amit Varma]: What does that mean when you say that?
[Guest 1]: It basically means that equity is negative essentially means they've made losses over
[Guest 1]: the years, okay, and their entire capital and retained profits has been wiped off.
[Guest 2]: So now they're basically bankrupt.
[Guest 2]: There's only upside for them if things turn around, but there's no downside because they
[Guest 2]: don't have any more of their own money that's invested.
[Amit Varma]: So it's upside but no downside.
[Amit Varma]: Wonderful situation.
[Amit Varma]: So I just want to go back to that accountability question.
[Amit Varma]: Now, yeah, of course, you want regulators to kind of do something, but is the core problem
[Amit Varma]: here also the ownership?
[Amit Varma]: Like for example, if the three of us own a company, right, who will keep it accountable,
[Amit Varma]: no matter what the regulations in place might be, even if there are no regulations in place,
[Amit Varma]: the three of us will keep it accountable by demanding regular statements because our interests
[Amit Varma]: are at play.
[Amit Varma]: Now, ILFS is owned partly by these public sector companies.
[Amit Varma]: And you'd imagine those stakeholders would keep them accountable as any stakeholder should.
[Guest 1]: So is that part of the problem?
[Guest 1]: It's a classic case of a principal agent problem, so which you can explain to our readers.
[Amit Varma]: Right, right.
[Amit Varma]: I mean, a principal agent problem is if I hire you to do something, there's an information
[Amit Varma]: asymmetry and how do I know you're actually doing it and blah, blah, blah, but that's
[Guest 2]: a kind of a different problem.
[Guest 2]: No, not really.
[Guest 2]: See, if you look at it,
[Guest 2]: I think this is a bigger problem across all sort of in terms of the corporate structure
[Guest 2]: itself.
[Guest 2]: Right.
[Guest 2]: So the way regulators approach financial companies is that we don't want a dominant shareholder.
[Guest 2]: We want diversified shareholding, because a dominant shareholder might sort of make
[Guest 2]: undue use of the company for his advantage.
[Guest 2]: And so what you get is a dispersed shareholding and no sort of dominant shareholder and the
[Guest 2]: CEO effectively becomes the one who runs the company.
[Guest 2]: And to get around the problem that he shouldn't run away with the company, what you have is
[Guest 2]: something called as independent directors.
[Guest 2]: Right.
[Guest 2]: So every bank and every company now has at least 50% independent directors.
[Guest 2]: But by saying that you are independent, you don't become independent.
[Guest 2]: Right.
[Guest 2]: So I think the issue and that sort of it's a big issue sort of globally itself is how
[Guest 2]: do you generate independence in mind, not just on paper, through incentives or contracts.
[Guest 2]: Right.
[Guest 2]: So you might appoint me as an independent director on your company.
[Guest 2]: I'm your friend.
[Guest 2]: You say, okay, let's buy this company.
[Guest 2]: I might just sign off on that even if you are.
[Guest 2]: How do you ensure that I remain an independent and think not of our friendship, but in the
[Guest 2]: interest of the companies through contracts?
[Guest 2]: I mean, I can be independent, but law cannot based on my how I might be.
[Guest 1]: See, it's like, you know, when once the new board took over, the directors who were a
[Guest 1]: part of the old board sort of wrote to the new board saying that, you know, we are all
[Guest 1]: there to help you.
[Guest 1]: And there were comments, you know, one of the directors even said that, you know, ILNFS
[Guest 1]: has had a huge asset liability mismatch over the years, and it's all well known.
[Guest 1]: If it's well known, why wasn't anything done about it?
[Guest 1]: Simply because the man who ran the company, you know, ran it like his own feed dump.
[Guest 2]: Curiously, he quit in July.
[Guest 2]: July.
[Guest 2]: Unhealth reasons.
[Amit Varma]: Well, we'll take a quick commercial break here.
[Amit Varma]: And after we come back, get back to the subject, which really boils my blood, why the hell
[Unknown]: are we rescuing these people out?
[Unknown]: Welcome back to the scene in the unseen.
[Amit Varma]: I'm sitting with Vivek Kaul and Ashutosh Duttar, who are helping me make sense of IL&FS, which
[Amit Varma]: is an NBFC, who have got taxpayers into a deep amount of SHIT.
[Amit Varma]: So Vivek, so what's the solution to that the government has come up with for IL&FS?
[Guest 1]: A day before the new board took over, I think the old board met and cleared a rights issue
[Guest 1]: of 4500 crores, which three of the investors, LIC, SBI and Oryx Corporation were supposed
[Guest 1]: to subscribe to.
[Guest 1]: Now, obviously, now with the new board taking over that, I don't think, you know, it's on
[Guest 1]: the table.
[Guest 1]: It's not on the table.
[Guest 1]: But then, you know, the question is, again, I mean, you know, we should at least ask as
[Guest 1]: to why should you know, what makes my blood boil even before, you know, LIC and SBI rescuing
[Guest 1]: IL&FS is the fact that why does LIC, which is essentially an investment company, I mean,
[Guest 1]: there is very little insurance, you know, that it sells, it's essentially an investment
[Guest 1]: company and why should LIC have a 25% stake in any company?
[Guest 1]: I mean, you know, one of the first things that they teach you, when you sort of start
[Guest 1]: learning anything about investing is to not have all your eggs in one basket.
[Guest 1]: You know, a mutual fund in India cannot own more than 10% of a particular any company.
[Guest 1]: So why should LIC be allowed to own 25% of a company?
[Guest 1]: I mean, that's it's bizarre.
[Guest 1]: So obviously, now that you own 25% of a company, the logical thing is that you have to rescue
[Guest 1]: the company because otherwise, you know, whatever you've already invested in it, sort of goes
[Guest 1]: to the you know,
[Amit Varma]: And even if you invoke the sunk cost fallacy, this is too much of a sunk cost, 25% of
[Guest 1]: So you know, the other thing is, State Bank of India, you know, which has around 7% stake
[Guest 1]: in IL&FS made losses of close to 7000 crore last year.
[Amit Varma]: On its own.
[Guest 1]: So why is, you know, a loss making bank trying to rescue, you know, another systematically
[Guest 1]: important financial institution?
[Guest 1]: No, you know, as far as systematically important financial institutions go, I don't think there
[Guest 1]: is, you know, a more systematically important financial institution in India than the State
[Guest 1]: Bank of India.
[Guest 1]: Nothing is more systematically important.
[Guest 1]: So why is SBI, you know, being forced into even, you know, more deep shit?
[Guest 1]: So I mean, if you look at these things, you know, the kind of questions that crop up are,
[Guest 1]: you know, I mean, they really make your blood boil.
[Amit Varma]: And just elaborate a bit on to just kind of again, take another digression shift from
[Amit Varma]: IL&FS, how many times we have to say that to LIC, which you've written a couple of really
[Amit Varma]: good pieces on and if I might quote from one of them, quote, if LIC keeps picking up all
[Amit Varma]: the rubbish that is lying around, one day it will have to be rescued as well.
[Amit Varma]: The question is, who will rescue the rescuer?
[Amit Varma]: Stop quote.
[Amit Varma]: And obviously, you mean that as a rhetorical question, but the answer is we will be the
[Guest 1]: taxpayers.
[Guest 1]: No, I mean, see, the point is whether it's easy to say that the taxpayer will rescue,
[Guest 1]: but it's not so straightforward.
[Guest 1]: You know, LIC is huge.
[Guest 1]: And if you look at a bank like IDBI, which is not a very big bank, if you know, I think
[Guest 1]: LIC is investing 10-12,000 crores in that bank.
[Guest 1]: Now, essentially, a, you know, a bank like IDBI needs that kind of money.
[Guest 1]: Just imagine how much LIC is worth one day, you know, if things are not right with LIC,
[Guest 1]: because LIC is another huge black box.
[Guest 1]: Nobody really knows what is happening inside that organization.
[Guest 1]: If you look at publicly available information, it is presented in such, you know, terms that
[Guest 1]: it's very difficult to make out what is happening inside the organization, even though they
[Guest 1]: declare, you know, information every three months.
[Guest 1]: But if you go to that particular page on the LIC website, and try to put things together,
[Guest 1]: it's next to impossible.
[Guest 1]: Unless, you know, you work within LIC and you understand the dynamics of how the organization
[Guest 1]: operates.
[Guest 1]: So, yeah, I mean, it's bizarre that, you know, and you know, one thing that people don't
[Guest 1]: get is that LIC money is not taxpayer money, okay?
[Guest 1]: It's money that the policyholders have given LIC to manage.
[Guest 1]: Now, ultimately, those policyholders may also be taxpayers.
[Guest 1]: But that's a different thing altogether.
[Guest 1]: So the only aim of LIC should be to sort of manage that money properly.
[Guest 1]: LIC is also not a, you know, it's not an asset reconstruction company or, you know, a vulture
[Guest 1]: fund, or, you know, a distressed asset management fund, you know, you have all these fancy terms.
[Guest 1]: It's not, it doesn't have expertise in those areas, right?
[Guest 1]: So it should not, you know, a lot of people make this argument, oh, but they're buying
[Guest 1]: these assets cheap, you know, when they bought IDBI.
[Guest 1]: But that is not what LIC is supposed to do.
[Guest 1]: They are supposed to sort of manage your money in the most, you know, risk free way possible.
[Amit Varma]: And normally, you know, for any private insurance company, you have, you know, policyholders,
[Amit Varma]: and your responsibility is to those policyholders, that's all your incentives.
[Amit Varma]: But in the case of LIC is complicated, because it's a government company, and they have to
[Guest 1]: do all these other things.
[Guest 1]: So you'll have like, you know, if the government does not meet its fiscal deficit target this
[Guest 1]: year, so then they'll, you know, come up with, they'll sell shares in all these public sector
[Guest 1]: companies, which no one else will want, and then LIC will come in and LIC will sort of
[Guest 1]: buy those shares.
[Guest 1]: But then till you know, and this is not when it's not like it's been happening, you know,
[Guest 1]: only in the last four years, it's been happening forever.
[Guest 1]: You know, any thing of this sort in LIC comes to the rescue.
[Amit Varma]: And I'm going to stroke your ego a bit more by quoting from another piece of work, where
[Amit Varma]: you said, start quote, of course, the average LIC policyholder is financially illiterate.
[Amit Varma]: I mean, why else would you hand over your hard earned money to LIC?
[Amit Varma]: And given that he is not aware of all that is happening right now, hence, I guess it's
[Amit Varma]: only fair that he has been taken for a ride.
[Amit Varma]: If you are not bothered about your money, why do you expect someone else to be?
[Amit Varma]: Stop quote.
[Amit Varma]: And your conclusion here is that the smart thing for anyone to do is stop buying LIC
[Guest 1]: policy.
[Guest 1]: Yes, I mean, you know, because one, you don't know what is inside that black box, two, you
[Guest 1]: don't know how your money will be used.
[Guest 1]: And see, if you so I'll give you a very simple example.
[Guest 1]: Now, LIC has stakes in all the 20 public sector banks.
[Guest 1]: And it owns one public sector bank.
[Guest 1]: So there are 21 public sector banks, it has stakes in 20 and it owns one.
[Guest 1]: Now, you know, public sector banks are going through a very bad phase right now.
[Guest 1]: And nobody really knows where all that will end.
[Guest 1]: And LIC as a major owner of almost all these banks is already suffering and will probably
[Guest 1]: suffer more in the years to come.
[Guest 1]: So you know, there is a gentleman called K.C.
[Guest 1]: Chakraborty, who used to be the deputy governor of RBI.
[Guest 1]: Before that, he was the CEO of Punjab National Bank.
[Guest 1]: And he, you know, in an interview some time back said that, you know, the bad loans of
[Guest 1]: Indian banks are 20 lakh crore.
[Guest 1]: And the declared bad loans as of now and as of March 31st, 2018, were around 10.35 lakh
[Guest 1]: crore.
[Guest 1]: So, you know, we still don't know where all this will end.
[Guest 1]: So LIC anyway, as a major owner of these banks, is in a huge mess.
[Guest 1]: On top of that, you know, if you start getting it to rescue all these, you know, island FSS
[Guest 1]: of the world, I mean, you're really taking the policyholder for a one big ride.
[Guest 1]: And policyholder, poor guy, I mean, you know, he spends more time figuring out which mobile
[Guest 1]: phone he wants to buy, but he's just happy handing over money to, you know, any LIC agent
[Guest 1]: who pops over, you know, to be invested because LIC is government.
[Guest 1]: But you know, you should remember that, you know, government also has limited resources.
[Guest 1]: I mean, government did not come to rescue everyone who got screwed in with the Unit
[Guest 1]: Trust of India.
[Guest 1]: I mean, they did come up with a rescue plan, but it was a limited rescue plan.
[Amit Varma]: So all these factors have to be kept in mind.
[Amit Varma]: So let me turn to you, Ashutosh, with a question of principle, which is, should such company
[Amit Varma]: be bailed out at all?
[Amit Varma]: I mean, like you were saying before this, that this is a classic case as 2008 was, for
[Amit Varma]: example, of profits being privatized, but losses being socialized.
[Amit Varma]: You know that if a company makes profit, they enjoy the benefits of that.
[Amit Varma]: But the moment they go down, oh, then the government jumps in taxpayer money or public
[Amit Varma]: sector money is put into that.
[Amit Varma]: And that creates what economists call moral hazard.
[Amit Varma]: They change the incentives of the game because in future also, that means that companies
[Amit Varma]: can afford to invest unwisely and behave badly knowing that the upside is unlimited.
[Amit Varma]: But the downside is none because they'll be bailed out.
[Guest 2]: Yes.
[Guest 2]: And I think what you're seeing in financial markets is essentially this bogey being raised
[Guest 2]: that the ISF is OK, but this will have repercussions on the entire financial systems.
[Guest 2]: You've already seen share prices of some NBFCs fall 40, 50, 60 percent, that this will create
[Guest 2]: a systemic issue.
[Guest 2]: And I have some sympathy to that view that there is a risk to that.
[Guest 2]: But even if you compare it to 2008, in 2008, many of the top 10 financial institutions
[Guest 2]: in the US were in trouble.
[Guest 2]: We are currently nowhere near that threshold being built.
[Guest 2]: None of our banks are in trouble.
[Guest 2]: None of the large NBFCs are in trouble.
[Guest 2]: None of the large insurance companies are in trouble.
[Guest 2]: So even if one were to say that we are staring at a 2008 kind of a scenario and that requires
[Guest 2]: a bailout, we are nowhere close to that threshold being reached.
[Guest 2]: So I think as of now, at least, there is absolutely no question of why an island FS or any of
[Guest 2]: the NBFCs which didn't do their asset liability management in place and are currently struggling
[Guest 2]: should be bailed out.
[Guest 2]: In the last five years, they enjoyed benefits of low interest rates where they could borrow
[Guest 2]: short term and report fantastic profits.
[Guest 2]: And now that the tide has turned and sort of you have to take it on the chain.
[Guest 2]: Were those low interest rates a problem to begin with?
[Guest 2]: I don't think so.
[Guest 2]: Okay.
[Guest 2]: I think the problem was that people assumed that, I mean, and this happens in every cycle,
[Guest 2]: people assume that low interest rates will continue forever.
[Unknown]: Right.
[Unknown]: Sort of people don't assume that things are cyclical and think and eventually sort of,
[Guest 2]: I mean, as they say in financial markets, the safest statement to say is these two shall
[Guest 2]: pass.
[Guest 1]: Nobody wants to say that.
[Guest 1]: So, you know, this is very interesting.
[Guest 1]: I mean, I just remembered a line which John Galbraith wrote in one of his books.
[Guest 1]: He says that in America, and I'm paraphrasing here because I don't remember the exact line.
[Guest 1]: He said in America, the only socialism is the socialism for the rich.
[Guest 1]: So you know, the same logic applies to financial markets.
[Guest 1]: You know, when things are going well, you know, you'll have all these bankers and, you
[Guest 1]: know, industrialists and everyone talking about free markets and you know, the benefits
[Guest 1]: of capitalism and but the moment the tide turns, you know, everyone wants to sort of
[Guest 1]: run back to the government.
[Guest 1]: And it's interesting.
[Guest 1]: So I was again, you know, reading this piece in Business India, and they have these, you
[Guest 1]: know, all these, you know, so called experts who keep getting quoted in these magazine
[Amit Varma]: articles.
[Amit Varma]: I love the way you say so called experts, because you're also an expert.
[Guest 1]: But I don't get quoted in magazine articles.
[Guest 1]: So we should change that.
[Guest 1]: No, I'm what I'm what I'm trying to say here is so I'll just read out a few quotes here.
[Guest 1]: And I'll not name the guy because it's not fair on that person, because everyone else
[Guest 1]: in the market is also saying the same thing.
[Guest 1]: So there's one, the government should move fast.
[Guest 1]: It's a company specific problem and should not be seen as an industry problem.
[Unknown]: So he's basically contradicting himself here.
[Guest 1]: You know, one is saying it's not a big problem, but the government should move.
[Guest 1]: Because if the government moves fast, then it's easy.
[Guest 1]: You know, the private sector does not have to sit together and solve the problem.
[Guest 1]: Okay, there's another guy who says I'm hopeful about the government taking a keen interest
[Guest 1]: and moving fast to take necessary steps to avoid further pain in the system.
[Guest 1]: You know, the point is, unless there is pain in the system at certain points of time, the
[Guest 1]: system will never get cleaned up.
[Guest 1]: You know, the classic example here is, there is a comparison that's made between California
[Guest 1]: and you know, Baja California, which is a state in Mexico.
[Guest 1]: So in California, forest fires, essentially what they do, the policy is that every fire
[Guest 1]: in a forest has to be stopped.
[Guest 1]: Okay, even the smallest fire.
[Guest 1]: So what that does is that California does not have small fires.
[Guest 1]: What it has is big fires.
[Guest 1]: Now compare that to Baja California, where you let these small fires burn.
[Guest 1]: Okay, what that does is, you know, all this dry shrub and everything that has accumulated
[Guest 1]: that burns off.
[Guest 1]: So they don't have big fires.
[Guest 1]: So if you were to use that analogy for, you know, financial system or capitalism, so you
[Guest 1]: need these periodic small crises to make sure that there is no bigger crisis.
[Guest 2]: That's a brilliant analogy.
[Guest 2]: And this is sort of the anti fragile concept that Taleb talks about.
[Guest 2]: And I think and sort of where it sort of goes back to is that if you don't inflict losses
[Guest 2]: today, it sets up more risk taking behavior down the line and sets you up for a bigger
[Amit Varma]: crisis later on.
[Amit Varma]: Because everybody assumes there is a put option.
[Amit Varma]: This kind of shit gives capitalism a bad name.
[Amit Varma]: It's one of the fundamental tenets of capitalism that if someone fails, let them fail.
[Amit Varma]: It's a lesson for everybody else and it changes incentives down the line.
[Amit Varma]: But here what happens is if you keep rescuing these big boys, you create moral hazard, everybody
[Amit Varma]: feels or you know, all the other big boys say, hey, we are too big to fail, we'll continue
[Amit Varma]: to behave badly, we'll do whatever the hell, government will come to us.
[Guest 2]: And this doesn't allow market discipline to work.
[Guest 2]: Exactly.
[Guest 2]: I mean, the reason why nobody paid attention to Island Affairs financials is because people
[Guest 1]: thought it will not go bankrupt.
[Guest 2]: But the moment people feel that if somebody is going to go bankrupt, and there will be
[Guest 2]: no bailout, then before putting my money, I better keep a close eye on what this company
[Guest 2]: is up to.
[Guest 2]: So in a sense, it is important for me to play discipline to believe that there is no backstop
[Guest 1]: by the government.
[Guest 2]: So it's sort of it's wonderful for the entire system to be a bit more sort of become a bit
[Guest 2]: more conservative and discovers that you should let companies fail.
[Amit Varma]: So supposing the government does that, supposing tomorrow, no, no, no, I'm building a thought
[Amit Varma]: experiment.
[Amit Varma]: Oh, so supposing tomorrow, Modi ji's office calls Vivek and says, hey, come and advise
[Amit Varma]: us and he says, hey, do nothing about ILNFS.
[Amit Varma]: God, I have to keep saying that ILNFS then and he says, okay, do nothing.
[Amit Varma]: And they say, okay, we won't do anything.
[Amit Varma]: How would that scenario normally play out?
[Guest 1]: Can I make an analogy here?
[Guest 1]: So, so basically, you know, someone did some research in football.
[Guest 1]: And they realized that if the goalkeeper stands straight, when a penalty shot is being taken,
[Guest 1]: instead of jumping left or jumping right, he has a 30% chance of stopping the goal,
[Guest 1]: which is a pretty good percentage.
[Guest 1]: The point is, the goalkeepers also understand this, they're not like exactly idiots, but
[Guest 1]: they still jump left or right.
[Guest 1]: Why?
[Guest 1]: Because, you know, there's a 30% chance.
[Guest 1]: Now, imagine you're standing in, you know, at the center and the ball goes towards your
[Guest 1]: left or your right and you don't jump.
[Guest 1]: What is the impression that gets?
[Guest 1]: You're not trying.
[Guest 1]: He's not trying, he's not doing anything.
[Guest 1]: So do nothing is never, you know, even though it's a great thing to talk about, it never
[Guest 1]: really happens.
[Guest 1]: Because I mean, this was something that Dr. Vivek Reddy, who was the governor of the RBI,
[Guest 1]: told me once, and I sort of had gone to interview him and he said, beta, do nothing is never
[Guest 1]: a strategy.
[Guest 1]: You have to do something, you have to be seen to be doing something.
[Guest 1]: Which is where this do nothing thing goes for a toss.
[Guest 2]: So there's a famous...
[Guest 2]: You don't have to sort of go that way.
[Guest 2]: I mean, for example, when companies currently go into distress, we have a bankruptcy court,
[Guest 2]: bankruptcy regime to take them to bankruptcy.
[Guest 2]: They need certain handholding during that process.
[Guest 2]: Somebody else takes over, runs it, sort of, it's sort of an ICU sort of process.
[Guest 2]: And we had a similar concept for that called as the FRDI bill, which is supposed to do
[Guest 2]: that for financial firms.
[Guest 2]: But that bill never got passed because the bogey that was created was that it had a clause
[Guest 2]: that depositors' money would be converted into equity at some stage of point.
[Guest 2]: But that bill essentially provided a framework wherein financial companies which get into
[Guest 2]: distress, the way to resolve that by taking them into ICU and either selling of them in
[Guest 2]: pieces or liquidating them or that.
[Guest 2]: And this was this year, this bill was supposed to be passed this year.
[Guest 2]: So in a sense, if we had done that, if our politicians had thought clearly and thought
[Guest 2]: of what the big picture was, we would have had legal framework through which to take
[Guest 2]: IL&FS.
[Guest 2]: There would have been no government money involved, and they would have been town bound.
[Guest 2]: So that law gives 12 months timeframe in which to get the company out of distress and would
[Guest 2]: have had a proper way of solving that problem.
[Guest 2]: But because our politics is so muddled, we now have no legal way.
[Guest 2]: And hence we have to go through this supervising the board, new board and all of that.
[Guest 1]: And essentially, we don't know what the new board, what will the poor guys do?
[Guest 1]: I mean, Uday Kotak already has a day job.
[Unknown]: Right.
[Amit Varma]: I mean, he has a huge bank to manage.
[Amit Varma]: And why did he take this up?
[Guest 1]: I mean, see, after I say, I guess, you know, after a point of time, everyone in the Indian
[Guest 1]: financial services business wants to be like Deepak Parekh.
[Guest 1]: You know, you you're not just an institution builder, you also you're an institution, you're
[Guest 1]: not just an institution builder is what I'm saying.
[Guest 1]: You also want to sort of, you know, see, be seen doing something for the country, the
[Amit Varma]: elder statesman.
[Guest 1]: You want to sort of protect yourself as something like that.
[Guest 1]: So so he has a day job, right.
[Guest 1]: And also the fact that all these directors are new, so they really don't have any insider
[Guest 1]: information.
[Guest 1]: They really don't know what was happening there.
[Guest 1]: So I'm not really sure as to, you know, this 30 day deadline, I think by 31st, they have
[Guest 1]: to submit something to the National Company Law Tribunal.
[Guest 1]: I mean, what will they do in 30 days?
[Amit Varma]: They wouldn't even know the names of all the subsidies.
[Amit Varma]: What are the options open to them?
[Amit Varma]: Like I think Andy Bloomberg, if I'm not mistaken, Andy Mukherjee in his Bloomberg column, basically
[Amit Varma]: spoke about not putting any taxpayer money in but having some of the companies.
[Guest 1]: See, what will happen is, see, that's not so straightforward.
[Amit Varma]: This is the problem, you know, Andy works out of Hong Kong.
[Amit Varma]: So I mean, honestly, I mean, I love what he writes.
[Guest 1]: So see, he said, you know, you should sell the engineering and construction company,
[Guest 1]: which was formerly Mitas.
[Guest 1]: Now, the problem is, you know, the moment you start doing that, you will obviously not,
[Guest 1]: it will be a distress sale.
[Guest 1]: Okay.
[Guest 1]: Now, a distress sale in India is not so straightforward, because some politician will catch on to it
[Guest 1]: and then there will be some controversy, you know, spun around it.
[Guest 1]: So I mean, if you look at what has been happening to banks, and you know, the companies that
[Guest 1]: they are trying to sell or only you know, this, I think Tata have bought Bhushan Steel.
[Guest 1]: And that's about it.
[Guest 1]: And then there are, you know, nothing else has really...
[Guest 1]: So big deals have moved so far.
[Amit Varma]: So what you're really saying is that this is not about the economy, it's about the political
[Guest 1]: economy.
[Unknown]: Obviously, I mean, you can't just say, yeh karna chahiye, woh karna chahiye, you got
[Amit Varma]: to see what is likely to happen, because even politicians have incentives.
[Guest 2]: Yes.
[Guest 2]: And even the directors who are now in place who have incentives, because they are bankers,
[Guest 1]: some of them, they are connected to financial companies.
[Guest 1]: And there are some...
[Guest 1]: And somebody would have to take write-offs.
[Guest 2]: Bureaucrats...
[Guest 2]: At the end of the day, somebody will have to take write-downs.
[Guest 2]: Now, who will take write-downs?
[Guest 1]: How much of the write-downs will be taken?
[Guest 1]: And the thing is, now that you know, people are getting into sort of getting more and
[Guest 1]: more information now.
[Guest 1]: So I read this piece, which said that around 15,000 crores will have to be written off.
[Guest 1]: Now, I mean, and this is just, you know, when people have started looking at a very, you
[Guest 1]: know, not in a very detailed way.
[Guest 1]: So once, you know, people are able to get into the books and everything, I mean, you
[Guest 2]: really don't know what is actually there.
[Guest 1]: Even if there are gold-plated assets out there, for example.
[Guest 1]: There are huge... gold-plated assets is something that, you know, society loves...
[Guest 1]: What is a gold-plated asset?
[Guest 1]: So gold-plated asset is basically something which is not worth the price that is essentially,
[Guest 1]: you know, there on the balance sheet.
[Guest 1]: Right.
[Guest 1]: So it's like something might, you know, you might show something to be priced at a thousand
[Guest 1]: crores, while it might be worth only around 500 crores or anything like that.
[Amit Varma]: So let's move on for a moment from the narrow issue of IL&FS, so that it's the last time
[Amit Varma]: I have to say this.
[Amit Varma]: And Ashutosh, let me then put to you a broader question about leaving for the moment political
[Amit Varma]: imperatives out of the way in the political economy aside for the moment.
[Amit Varma]: We'll come to that after we speak about this.
[Amit Varma]: But if there was to be structural reform of the banking sector or of the financial sector
[Amit Varma]: to prevent such problems in future, what kind of structural reforms would you look at?
[Amit Varma]: For example, when we were discussing this earlier, you sent me a fairly detailed mail.
[Amit Varma]: And you know, one of the questions that you posed is, should there be so much credit outside
[Amit Varma]: the banking sector?
[Amit Varma]: Should there be this regulatory arbitrage, you know, is reducing some of the restrictions
[Amit Varma]: on banks and allowing easy entry and exit in case of banks and having banks as a sole
[Amit Varma]: lending institution a better policy?
[Guest 2]: Yes.
[Guest 2]: So I think the philosophical question that I ask is, if I'm a bank and I want to give
[Guest 2]: a hundred rupee loan, I shouldn't be able to ask myself, should I give it on my books
[Guest 2]: or my hundred percent subsidiary NBFC?
[Guest 2]: Right.
[Guest 2]: So I think those sort of questions, which essentially I am picking and choosing which
[Guest 2]: regulatory environment to choose shouldn't be there.
[Guest 2]: So a one single rupee loan shouldn't have two different implications in terms of regulation
[Guest 2]: based on what legal entity is giving that loan.
[Guest 2]: So I think we should start with this thing that the regulatory environment should be
[Guest 2]: a function of what risk we are building in.
[Guest 2]: And that risk cannot be a function of what is the legal status of you, of whether you
[Guest 2]: are an NBFC or a bank or a company or an individual.
[Guest 2]: So we should start by that.
[Guest 2]: I think the other issue is whether we should have so much of restrictions on banking in
[Guest 2]: the first place.
[Guest 2]: And should we have one single kind of banking which we currently have?
[Guest 2]: So every bank in India does pretty much the same thing.
[Guest 2]: Should we encourage people to come with innovative structure?
[Guest 2]: Should there be a bank which says, I don't want to raise deposits, I only want to give
[Guest 2]: loans?
[Guest 2]: Should there be allow banks which say that I only want to give take deposits, but I don't
[Guest 2]: really want to give loans?
[Guest 2]: That's not really my core strength.
[Guest 2]: Should there be banks which say that I only want to facilitate payments or I only want
[Guest 2]: to run a credit card business?
[Guest 2]: And currently laws do not allow that.
[Guest 2]: Every bank has to give 40% of its loans to what is called as priority sector.
[Guest 2]: 20% of their branches should be in unbanked rural areas.
[Guest 2]: So essentially you have only just one single business model.
[Guest 2]: And that is what leads to this regulatory arbitrage within BFCs.
[Guest 2]: So when Raghuram Rabjan came in in 2013, the first press conference he said, he said, we'll
[Guest 2]: have on tap banking.
[Guest 2]: We are sort of five years down the line and we don't have on tap banking.
[Guest 2]: What is on tap banking?
[Amit Varma]: So anybody can come and apply for a banking license and they will get that license.
[Guest 2]: We only had a few banks being licensed in 2013-14 sort of that first wave and post that
[Guest 1]: we've not had a single one.
[Guest 1]: It's like, you know, one day RBI wakes up and says, okay, we'll give bank licenses.
[Guest 1]: So on tap would mean that I wake up any morning and I feel okay, I am now in a position where
[Guest 1]: I should be able to get an RBI license.
[Amit Varma]: And then you're held accountable by the market.
[Amit Varma]: But that doesn't...
[Guest 2]: And the second, I think the issue...
[Guest 2]: I just want to make one point.
[Guest 1]: So, you know, he was basically talking about the fact that how, you know, there need to
[Guest 1]: be different banks doing different kinds of things.
[Guest 1]: Now, this is something I really, you know, firmly believe in.
[Guest 1]: And if you look at the current banking crisis, the one learning that, you know, that has
[Guest 1]: stayed with me is that, you know, all these public sector banks, at least the smaller
[Guest 1]: ones, I mean, you leave out the top five, you leave out, you know, SBI, Bank of Baroda,
[Guest 1]: Punjab National Bank, Canara Bank.
[Guest 1]: But all these small banks, you know, the Dena Banks and the Bank of Maharashtra's of the
[Guest 1]: world and the Indian Overseas Banks, they should borrow money and they should stick
[Guest 1]: to retail lending.
[Guest 1]: I don't think, you know, it's they do not have the expertise to sort of carry do project
[Guest 1]: finance that should be, you know, totally taken out of the equation.
[Guest 1]: Because, you know, one is that the second thing that will happen there is that, you
[Guest 1]: know, all these politically motivated lending, I mean, the moment you can only do retail
[Guest 1]: lending, the politically motivated lending will go out of the window.
[Amit Varma]: And we've spoken about this in a previous episode on defaults and stuff.
[Guest 2]: And so the other thing that it links to is that the system would be far better if we
[Guest 2]: had a large number of small banks.
[Guest 2]: Right.
[Guest 2]: Whereas our focus today is on getting big institutions.
[Guest 2]: Which is very stupid.
[Guest 2]: We are merging banks together rather than saying, okay, this particular bank is doing
[Guest 2]: nothing, let's just close it down.
[Amit Varma]: And if you had on tap banking, you would have a lot of small players, you would have a lot
[Guest 2]: of innovation.
[Guest 2]: A large number of different banks is what contributes.
[Guest 2]: In any industry, if you had differentiated producers, that is what leads to consumer
[Guest 2]: welfare, not just a large number of monolithic players.
[Guest 2]: They don't add to consumer value beyond a point.
[Guest 2]: I mean, just Pepsi and Coke don't add to value.
[Guest 2]: But a Pepsi versus a Tropicana, for example, adds to consumer value because you have choice,
[Guest 2]: because you're different.
[Guest 2]: I think we forget that.
[Guest 2]: And we have all banks just doing the same thing.
[Guest 2]: Same kind of credit card, same kind of deposit product, same kind of loans, same interest
[Guest 2]: rates.
[Guest 2]: There is just no differentiation.
[Amit Varma]: And the reason for this is regulation.
[Guest 2]: This is the regulation.
[Guest 2]: There is no flexibility that banks are allowed to.
[Amit Varma]: So I can't do something different.
[Amit Varma]: So now getting to the question of the political economy on this, what are the interest groups
[Amit Varma]: that argue in favor of the status quo that prevent these changes from coming about?
[Guest 1]: I mean, the big banks themselves.
[Amit Varma]: So the big banks are powerful interest groups who want to maintain the status quo, want
[Guest 2]: to maintain the market shares?
[Guest 2]: I think the irony in India is that if you look at the big private sector banks, they
[Guest 2]: somehow dominate every facet of financial services.
[Guest 2]: They have the largest asset management companies.
[Guest 2]: They have the largest insurance company.
[Guest 2]: So in a sense, they have become oligopolies in themselves.
[Guest 1]: And that creates...
[Guest 2]: And this is something that runs across all financial services.
[Guest 2]: It's not just in banking.
[Guest 2]: It is there in mutual funds.
[Guest 2]: It is there in insurance.
[Guest 2]: It is there in pretty much every facet of financial services that under the garb of
[Guest 2]: investor protection or consumer protection, you essentially reduce barriers to entry.
[Amit Varma]: And this speaks to what I sometimes say that free markets don't mean public sector bad,
[Amit Varma]: private sector good.
[Amit Varma]: What happens and what we can see happening here as well is that the top players in the
[Amit Varma]: private sector will always want to protect their turf and will be hand in glove with
[Amit Varma]: the government to use state power to, you know, have regulations of this sort, which
[Amit Varma]: prevent a level playing field, which prevent easy entry and competition.
[Amit Varma]: And therefore, these are actually not free markets.
[Amit Varma]: Even the private players in this are not supporters of free markets and are acting contrary to
[Guest 2]: these principles.
[Guest 1]: Which is understandable.
[Guest 2]: I mean, they are being rational.
[Guest 2]: It's the job of the regulator to say that I hear you, but this is not in the interest
[Guest 2]: of the larger society or what I am tasked with.
[Amit Varma]: And so I'm not going to agree with what you are saying.
[Amit Varma]: But then there's a vicious circle that if the regulator is a government, the government
[Amit Varma]: have their own incentives at play.
[Amit Varma]: For example, who is going to fund us in the next election?
[Amit Varma]: How do we get back to power?
[Guest 1]: And then that eventually there's a center play between money and power and we are caught
[Guest 1]: in a vicious circle.
[Guest 1]: And more than that, I mean, if you look at it, the statutory liquidity ratio, I think
[Guest 1]: is still 20 percent or 19 and a half, whatever.
[Guest 1]: So almost, you know, by law, one fifth of the deposits that get collected need to be
[Guest 1]: invested in government bonds.
[Guest 1]: So it is in the government's interest to have one kind of banking because, you know, you
[Guest 1]: have all this money coming in.
[Guest 1]: And when all this money gets invested in government bonds, obviously interest rates are going
[Guest 1]: to be low.
[Guest 1]: So and the government is, you know, you and I might want higher interest rates on our
[Guest 1]: deposits, but the government loves low interest rates.
[Guest 1]: So that is it's not just political funding.
[Guest 1]: I mean, it just goes back to the core of how, you know, the banking is structured in India.
[Amit Varma]: So you know, I've taken a lot of your time and gained a lot of insight from this episode.
[Amit Varma]: Let me end by asking both of you again, a hypothetical and difficult question that what
[Amit Varma]: is in your minds, if let's say that you are in 2028, what is the best case scenario that
[Amit Varma]: has happened in these 10 years in terms of the financial system?
[Amit Varma]: And what is the worst case scenario?
[Amit Varma]: How bad can things get?
[Amit Varma]: And if there is any hope, where does that hope come from?
[Guest 1]: No, I mean, I don't think everything will go wrong.
[Guest 1]: I mean, ultimately, you know, things have a way of sort of sorting themselves out.
[Guest 1]: But in the worst case scenario, as you know, Dr. K.C. Chakraborty said, you know, bad loans
[Guest 1]: of banks will be at a level of 20 lakh crores.
[Guest 1]: That indeed is a lot of money.
[Guest 1]: Having said that, there are still I mean, if you if you look at some of the private
[Guest 1]: banks, I mean, banks like HDFC and Kotak, which are still pretty reasonably run.
[Guest 1]: So, you know, people, depositors always have an option of sort of banking with these banks.
[Guest 1]: And also, you know, as Ashutosh said, I mean, we need more small banks.
[Guest 1]: I mean, once you increase competition, it obviously, you know, means more value for
[Guest 1]: the end consumer.
[Guest 1]: And it also means that, you know, if one of the small banks sort of goes bust, you will
[Guest 1]: be able to limit the damage.
[Guest 1]: I mean, take like, you know, I'm just sort of coming, you know, this is just a hypothetical
[Guest 1]: example here that let's say a bank just decides to do a credit card.
[Guest 1]: So if they have expertise in that area, what will happen over a period of time is that
[Guest 1]: that they will obviously one is that they will offer a slightly higher rate of interest
[Guest 1]: to the depositors.
[Guest 1]: And two, because they have, you know, expertise in that area, and because the defaults are
[Guest 1]: probably slightly lower than the overall market, they will also charge a slightly lower rate
[Guest 1]: of interest to their creditors.
[Guest 1]: So the point is, unless you know, you sort of allow banks to innovate a little and experiment
[Guest 1]: with a few business models.
[Guest 1]: And obviously, I mean, you know,
[Guest 1]: And let them fail when they fail.
[Guest 1]: Yes, let them fail.
[Guest 1]: But to the extent that, you know, depositors money is not wiped out.
[Guest 1]: Because you cannot be experimenting at the cost of, you know, so that sort of mentality
[Guest 1]: needs to seep in.
[Guest 2]: But then, you know, I mean,
[Guest 2]: If I can give you one example, I grew up in a small suburb outside Bombay.
[Guest 2]: Sort of this was in the mid 1990s.
[Guest 2]: There were no private sector banks, there were only public sector banks.
[Guest 2]: And we had a couple of cooperative banks, and they would remain open from 7.30 in the
[Guest 2]: morning till 11 o'clock, and then open again from 5.30 to 7.30.
[Guest 2]: Wow.
[Guest 2]: The cooperative banks?
[Guest 2]: The cooperative banks.
[Guest 2]: So just six hours?
[Guest 2]: Yes.
[Guest 2]: So the staff might go back home or the what I'm not privy to, but you land at the train
[Guest 2]: station because that's how most people commute.
[Guest 2]: And the branch is close by, you can do your banking business, go back home.
[Guest 2]: Whereas most government offices, government banks, for example, would run from 9 till
[Guest 2]: 2 or so, when most people who travel to Bombay cannot access the banking system.
[Guest 2]: So that sort of innovation is something that only can come when you are not in that same
[Guest 2]: structured bureaucratic sort of mindset.
[Guest 2]: And this is a wonderful consumer, they would go to every shopkeeper and collect deposits.
[Guest 2]: And BSU banks would just sit and sort of expect that some people will come and give money.
[Guest 1]: Which is what Sahara also did, by the way.
[Unknown]: So it's not so straightforward.
[Unknown]: No, but I agree with him.
[Guest 1]: Because, you know, if you remember in the, you know, probably 20, 30 years back, people
[Guest 1]: used to have multiple bank accounts.
[Guest 1]: I mean, in fact, some of my older relatives still have 10 accounts in public sector banks.
[Guest 1]: So this is essentially a holdover of an era where, you know, you had to ensure that you
[Guest 1]: had access to your funds on almost all days of the week, at different points of time.
[Guest 1]: So there is one bank which is open on Saturday.
[Guest 1]: So you know, you sort of have an account there.
[Guest 1]: There is one which sort of opens at 11 and closes at 3.30.
[Guest 1]: So people did all these, you know, machinations, and then they opened accounts at different.
[Amit Varma]: But now you don't because you have an ATM.
[Amit Varma]: So now answer the second part of my question, which is what's your source of hope for whatever
[Amit Varma]: best case scenario can possibly happen?
[Guest 1]: I think, see, my source of hope is the fact that, you know, RBI, despite all its problems,
[Guest 1]: is actually decently run in comparison to, you know, other government institutions in
[Guest 1]: the country.
[Guest 1]: And up until now, we've had decent, you know, governors.
[Guest 1]: And even though, you know, they might have got there because they sort of, you know,
[Guest 1]: the government wanted them to, but once they are there, they usually, you know, let's say
[Guest 1]: seven and a half to eight out of 10 times tend to do the right thing.
[Guest 1]: So if that continues, and if that position itself is not compromised, I have hope.
[Amit Varma]: Right.
[Guest 2]: Ashutosh?
[Guest 2]: So my hope and worry essentially stem from the same thing, which is the mess that PSU
[Guest 2]: banks find in.
[Guest 2]: I mean, there are two paths that we can take from here.
[Guest 2]: One is that we do nothing.
[Guest 2]: And PSU banks continue to shrink gradually, but their costs don't shrink.
[Guest 2]: There's a big labor force.
[Guest 2]: The cycle will turn at some point of time, there will be good days, which will come,
[Guest 2]: achche din will come for some time at least.
[Guest 2]: They will, their profitability will improve.
[Guest 2]: And then again, a downturn come, which will be worse possibly than what we have currently.
[Guest 2]: That's the stage in which we do nothing.
[Guest 2]: We just continue, government will give 10,000 crore, 15,000 crore capital every year that
[Guest 2]: is needed.
[Guest 2]: They will sort of just survive, muddle around, and sort of that, and the sort of flamboyant
[Guest 2]: and the better and private sector banks will continue to go at their expense.
[Guest 2]: The upside case is that we actually use this opportunity to reform our public sector banks.
[Guest 2]: Either make them do things which they're good at and prevent them from doing things that
[Guest 2]: they're not good at, which is like say, project loans or some of those things.
[Guest 2]: And we put in place a structure whereby political interference is minimized.
[Guest 2]: And in that sense, public sector banks are at least able to hold on to some of the areas.
[Guest 2]: I mean, to be fair, even now, there is an amount of trust that people have in keeping
[Guest 2]: deposits with public sector banks, which some private sector banks are able to, but not
[Guest 2]: all private sector banks.
[Guest 2]: I much rather put my money in an SBI rather than most other private sector banks for a
[Guest 2]: lot of people in the interior parts.
[Guest 2]: Can you leverage that strength that they have, prevent some of their bleeding on the asset
[Guest 2]: side, and at least they are able to generate a bare minimum, minimum return of capital
[Guest 2]: that they are not feeding off taxpayer money?
[Guest 2]: Because the next downturn might be worse than what we have seen.
[Amit Varma]: Vivek and Ashutosh, thanks a lot for coming on the show and giving me so much insight.
[Amit Varma]: I learned a lot today not only about ILNFS, but also what NBFCs and the banking sector
[Guest 2]: in general.
[Guest 2]: Thanks, Amit.
[Amit Varma]: Thanks.
[Amit Varma]: Good to be here.
[Amit Varma]: If you enjoyed listening to the show, you can follow Vivek on Twitter at call underscore
[Amit Varma]: Vivek.
[Amit Varma]: Also head on over to Amazon and buy his easy money trilogy.
[Amit Varma]: You can follow Ashutosh at a Datar, a Datar and you can read his pieces on Pragati at
[Amit Varma]: think Pragati.com.
[Amit Varma]: You can follow me at Amit Verma, A-M-I-T-V-A-R-M-A.
[Amit Varma]: And you can browse past episodes of the scene and the unseen at cneunseen.in or thinkpragati.com.
[Amit Varma]: Thank you for listening.
[Amit Varma]: Give me a word.
[Amit Varma]: Or any line.
[Unknown]: Anything can happen.
[Unknown]: What did you say?
[Unknown]: Cap.
[Unknown]: Okay.
[Unknown]: Move it.
[Unknown]: Kind of great.
[Unknown]: Ji faqrakti?
[Unknown]: You interrupted.
[Unknown]: I was dressed out.
[Unknown]: Okay.
[Unknown]: Short.
[Unknown]: Keep going.
[Unknown]: Sorry.
[Unknown]: All the time.
[Unknown]: Why?
[Unknown]: Cause if he didn't, everyone around him knew exactly what he was thinking.
[Unknown]: They knew that he was wondering how the girl in the yellow churidar would look without
[Unknown]: clothes.
[Unknown]: They knew when he was calling the boss a rotten tomato.
[Unknown]: They knew everything.
[Unknown]: But how did all this happen?
[Unknown]: This is the story.
[Unknown]: And you gave me this story by giving me the starting word.
[Unknown]: This is the Croc's Tales.
[Unknown]: Words are yours, story is yours.
[Unknown]: Catch the stories on Monday and Thursday on the IBM website, app and anywhere you get
[Unknown]: your podcasts from.
[Unknown]: See you soon.
[Unknown]: If you have any doubts in your life that no one can answer, then we have made a special
[Unknown]: show for you.
[Unknown]: It's called Sunloji Surloji.
[Unknown]: On this, I Pawan Kumar, your churidar, welcome you so that you can get a better understanding
[Unknown]: of the world.
[Unknown]: You can ask questions to Sonu.
[Unknown]: Yes, I am Sonu.
[Unknown]: Hello, please to make your meeting.
[Unknown]: I am a super reality celebrity or there is no problem in the world that celebrities can't
[Unknown]: solve.
[Unknown]: So I will solve all your problems and solve them.
[Unknown]: So yes, don't think, listen to Sunloji Surloji every Wednesday.
[Unknown]: That is Wednesday.
[Unknown]: Please like us, share us, comment us.
[Unknown]: If you have any problems, tell Sonu.
[Unknown]: Sonu can solve all the problems.
[Unknown]: I am a super celebrity.